# Inhoudsopgave {#inhoudsopgave .TOC-Heading}

[Introduction 1](#introduction)

[Purpose 1](#purpose)

[Scope 1](#scope)

[Opportunity Identified 1](#opportunity-identified)

[The Problem 1](#the-problem)

[Solution proposal (relation: Requirements conceived)
1](#solution-proposal-relation-requirements-conceived)

[Identified stakeholder needs 2](#identified-stakeholder-needs)

[Solution Needed 2](#solution-needed)

[Underlying problems (including security issues) 3](#prerequisites)

[ENISA BEST PRACTICES CYBERSECURITY
3](#enisa-best-practices-cybersecurity)

[Value established 8](#value-established)

[Viable 8](#viable)

[Addressed 9](#addressed)

[Deployed 10](#deployed)

# Introduction  {#introduction .KOP1-S}

## Purpose  {#purpose .KOP2-S}

This document describes the Stakeholder needs that define the
opportunity for product development of the firmware update system

## Scope  {#scope .KOP2-S}

This document identifies needs of stakeholders. A need exists within the
customer/stakeholder, and will be analyzed whether there will be value
generated by addressing the Need, and pursuing the identified
opportunities.

# ![](.//media/image1.png){width="2.3622047244094486in" height="3.425196850393701in"}Opportunity Identified {#opportunity-identified .KOP1-S}

### The Problem

With the success of the internet of things (IoT), the complexity of
software on these devices and hence, their attack surface increases.
Furthermore, the most devices are exposed to attacks through networks.
Hence, more and more devices are subject to attacks
(see [Ripple20](https://www.wired.com/story/ripple20-iot-vulnerabilities)).
Therefore, it becomes more and more important to be able to update these
devices over the air. It must be ensured that the update mechanism
itself does not introduce new vulnerabilities.

A remote update involves several steps, including release, deployment,
installation, and attestation of the update. Furthermore, a consistent
state of software through the whole installed base has to be ensured. A
further complication arises from the organizational structure of typical
IoT installations including multiple stakeholders: Several *original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs)* that are responsible for the IoT
devices. Typically they integrate subsystems from various *suppliers*.
Then, the network of IoT devices is operated by an *operator* on behalf
of the final *user*.

## Solution proposal (relation: Requirements conceived) {#solution-proposal-relation-requirements-conceived .KOP2-S}

The task of the SCRATCh firmware update system is to deploy data on a
given set of devices. It should handle them automatically so a network
of devices can be maintained properly. The primary focus is firmware but
the system can also handle other types of data. The input of the system
is a set of files and a list of target devices. The system shall ensure
that the set of files is distributed and applied (installed) to the list
of target devices. Furthermore, the system shall provide an attestation
that reports the status of the target devices after the deployment.

## Identified stakeholder needs {#identified-stakeholder-needs .KOP2-S}

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Nr**   **Description**                                     **status**
  -------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------
  N001     Updating a remote edge device where there is no     identified
           physical access to the device                       

  N002     Relaying a software or firmware update through the  identified
           edge device to connected IoT infrastructure         

  N003     Updates should be secure and safe.                  identified

  N004     In case of failure the device should automatically  identified
           recover into a previous connected state             

  N005     A notification of a successful update or updates is identified
           needed.                                             

  N006     Alternative distribution method direct from the     identified
           cloud to a IoT end device.                          

  N007     The update system can be implemented white labeled. identified

  N008     Trust relations can be resolved within a one        identified
           company ownership structure.                        

  N009     The system should also be offered to customers      identified
           using a Cloud infrastructure / web interface.       

  N010     Consider different business models, e.g. IoT        identified
           infrastructure is controlled by 1 company, Iot      
           Infrastructure is multitenant, One IoT system has   
           different business models                           

  N011     In case of a Cloud system a pay per use model       identified
           should be possible                                  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

# ![](.//media/image2.png){width="2.3622047244094486in" height="3.425196850393701in"}Solution Needed {#solution-needed .KOP1-S}

 A firmware update system has to cover the whole software deployment
chain from release up to installation, and attestation. Furthermore,
such a system has to technically support the organizational structures
and responsibilities of IoT supply chains. For example, one OEM is
responsible for the software releases of his device, while the operator
has to maintain interoperability between releases for different devices.
A minimal system for firmware update incorporates two major parts:

1.  The target systems that need to implement a procedure for a secure
    firmware update. Typically, this includes functions to download,
    install, and boot the firmware.

2.  The deployment infrastructure that signs, provides, and distributes
    firmware images.

The interaction of both parts is essential for the security of the
system.

We design a firmware update system that addresses this problem. We apply
existing methodologies like [The update
framework](https://theupdateframework.io/) and [Uptane](https://uptane.github.io/),
\[\@uptane_escar\] to our scenario's.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites .KOP2-S}

To have a working update firmware system, there must be a basic trust
infrastructure that provide IAM (Identity, Authorization, Management).

## Underlying problems (including security issues) {#underlying-problems-including-security-issues .KOP2-S}

There are multiple frameworks and also different types of bootloaders.
Several have been investigated see Collected research document
EKCRFU001. Including threats and some security requirements.

Specific security requirements can be derived from best practices of
ENISA.

Concerning the mayor problems related to security: Authentication,
Identification, Confidentiality, some times collected under the term
Trust, the following ENISA requirements are relevant:

### ENISA BEST PRACTICES CYBERSECURITY

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [**Requirement                                                                                                                            **Description**                                    [**Good                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  Nr **](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Trust+and+Integrity+Management?orderby=requirement_nr&ordertype=ASC)                                                      Practice **](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Trust+and+Integrity+Management?orderby=good_practice&ordertype=ASC)                                                                                                              
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- --
  [GP-TM-07](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-07)                                                                Use protocols and mechanisms able to represent and [Trust and Integrity Management](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Trust+and+Integrity+Management)                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            manage trust and trust relationships.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  [GP-TM-06](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-06)                                                                Restore Secure State - Enable a system to return   [Trust and Integrity Management](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Trust+and+Integrity+Management)                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            to a state that is known to be secure, after a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                            security breach occurs or if an upgrade is not                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                            successful.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

  [GP-TM-05](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-05)                                                                Control the installation of software on            [Trust and Integrity Management](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Trust+and+Integrity+Management)                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            operational systems, to prevent unauthenticated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                            software and files being loaded onto it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  [GP-TM-04](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-04)                                                                Sign code cryptographically to ensure it has not   [Trust and Integrity Management](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Trust+and+Integrity+Management)                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            been tampered after being signed as safe for the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            device, and implement run-time protection and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                            secure execution monitoring to be sure malicious                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            attacks do not overwrite code after it is loaded.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

  [GP-TM-03](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-03)                                                                The boot process initializes the main hardware     [Trust and Integrity Management](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Trust+and+Integrity+Management)                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            components, and starts the operating system. Trust                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            must be established in the boot environment before                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            any trust in any other software or executable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                            program can be claimed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  [GP-TM-49](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-49)                                                                Avoid provisioning the same secret key in an                                                                                                                                                      [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            entire product family, since compromising a single                                                                                                                                                communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            device would be enough to expose the rest of the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            product family.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  [GP-TM-48](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-48)                                                                Protocols should be designed to ensure that, if a                                                                                                                                                 [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            single device is compromised, it does not affect                                                                                                                                                  communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            the whole set.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

  [GP-TM-47](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-47)                                                                Risk Segmentation. Splitting network elements into                                                                                                                                                [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            separate components to help isolate security                                                                                                                                                      communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            breaches and minimise the overall risk.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

  [GP-TM-46](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-46)                                                                Rate limiting -- controlling the traffic sent or                                                                                                                                                  [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            received by a network to reduce the risk of                                                                                                                                                       communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            automated attacks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

  [GP-TM-45](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-45)                                                                Disable specific ports and/or network connections                                                                                                                                                 [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            for selective connectivity.                                                                                                                                                                       communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      

  [GP-TM-44](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-44)                                                                Make intentional connections. Prevent unauthorised                                                                                                                                                [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            connections to it or other devices the product is                                                                                                                                                 communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            connected to, at all levels of the protocols.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  [GP-TM-43](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-43)                                                                IoT devices should be restrictive rather than                                                                                                                                                     [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            permissive in communicating.                                                                                                                                                                      communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      

  [GP-TM-42](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-42)                                                                Do not trust data received and always verify any                                                                                                                                                  [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            interconnections. Discover, identify and                                                                                                                                                          communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            verify/authenticate the devices connected to the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            network before trust can be established, and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                            preserve their integrity for reliable solutions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                            and services.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  [GP-TM-41](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-41)                                                                Guarantee data authenticity to enable reliable                                                                                                                                                    [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            exchanges from data emission to data reception.                                                                                                                                                   communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            Data should always be signed whenever and wherever                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            it is captured and stored.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  [GP-TM-40](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-40)                                                                Ensure credentials are not exposed in internal or                                                                                                                                                 [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            external network traffic.                                                                                                                                                                         communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      

  [GP-TM-39](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-39)                                                                Ensure that communication security is provided                                                                                                                                                    [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            using state-of-the-art, standardised security                                                                                                                                                     communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            protocols, such as TLS for encryption.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       

  [GP-TM-38](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-38)                                                                Guarantee the different security aspects                                                                                                                                                          [Secure and trusted                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                            -confidentiality (privacy), integrity,                                                                                                                                                            communications](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Secure+and+trusted+communications)      
                                                                                                                                            availability and authenticity- of the information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            in transit on the networks or stored in the IoT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                            application or in the Cloud.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [**[Requirement                                                                                                                 **Description**                                   [**[Good
  Nr ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Authorisation?orderby=requirement_nr&ordertype=DESC)                                                     Practice ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Authorisation?orderby=good_practice&ordertype=DESC)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [[GP-TM-28]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-28)                                               Device firmware should be designed to isolate     [[Authorisation]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authorisation)
                                                                                                                                  privileged code and data from portions of the     
                                                                                                                                  firmware that do not need access to them, and     
                                                                                                                                  device hardware should provide isolation concepts 
                                                                                                                                  to prevent unprivileged from accessing security   
                                                                                                                                  sensitive code.                                   

  [[GP-TM-27]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-27)                                               Limit the permissions of actions allowed for a    
                                                                                                                                  given system by Implementing fine-grained         
                                                                                                                                  authorisation mechanisms and using the Principle  
                                                                                                                                  of least privilege (POLP)                         
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [**[Requirement                                                                                                                  **Description**                             [**[Good                                                                                                                              
  Nr ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Authentication?orderby=requirement_nr&ordertype=DESC)                                               Practice ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/Authentication?orderby=good_practice&ordertype=DESC)   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  [[GP-TM-26]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-26)                                                Ensure password recovery or reset mechanism [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   is robust and does not supply an attacker                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                   with information indicating a valid                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                   account. The same applies to key update and                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                   recovery mechanisms.                                                                                                                                                              

  [[GP-TM-25]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-25)                                                Protect against 'brute force' and/or other  [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   abusive login attempts. This protection                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                   should also consider keys stored in                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                   devices.                                                                                                                                                                          

  [[GP-TM-24]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-24)                                                Authentication credentials including but    [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   not limited to user passwords shall be                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                   salted, hashed and/or encrypted.                                                                                                                                                  

  [[GP-TM-23]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-23)                                                Authentication mechanisms must use strong   [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   passwords or personal identification                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                   numbers (PINs), and should consider using                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                   two-factor authentication (2FA) or                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                   multi-factor authentication (MFA) like                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                   Smartphones, Biometrics, etc., and                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                   certificates.                                                                                                                                                                     

  [[GP-TM-22]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-22)                                                Ensure default passwords and even default   [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   usernames are changed during the initial                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                   setup, and that weak, null or blank                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                   passwords are not allowed.                                                                                                                                                        

  [[GP-TM-21]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-21)                                                Design the authentication and authorization [[Authentication]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/Authentication)                                            
                                                                                                                                   schemes (unique per device) based on the                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                   system-level threat models.                                                                                                                                                       

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [**[Requirement                                                                                                                                 **Description**                            [**[Good                                                                                                                                             
  Nr ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/System+safety+and+reliability?orderby=requirement_nr&ordertype=DESC)                                              Practice ]{.ul}**](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_req/list/good_practice/System+safety+and+reliability?orderby=good_practice&ordertype=DESC)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  [[GP-TM-17]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-17)                                                               Ensure standalone operation - essential    [[System safety and reliability]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/System+safety+and+reliability)                             
                                                                                                                                                  features should continue to work with a                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                  loss of communications and chronicle                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                  negative impacts from compromised devices                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                  or cloud-based systems.                                                                                                                                                                         

  [[GP-TM-16]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-16)                                                               Mechanisms for self-diagnosis and          [[System safety and reliability]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/System+safety+and+reliability)                             
                                                                                                                                                  self-repair/healing to recover from                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                  failure, malfunction or a compromised                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                  state.                                                                                                                                                                                          

  [[GP-TM-15]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/enisa_r_standards/view/GP-TM-15)                                                               Design with system and operational         [[System safety and reliability]{.ul}](https://trusttab.com/standards/good_practices/view/System+safety+and+reliability)                             
                                                                                                                                                  disruption in mind, preventing the system                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                  from causing unacceptable risk of injury                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                  or physical damage.                                                                                                                                                                             

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From ENISA Industry 4.0

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Req Nr**                                                                                                            **Description**           **Security Domain** **Reference Author**         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------- -- --
  [GP-TM-31](https://trusttab.com/standards/masterdetail/index/enisa_industry_iot/enisa_industry_iot/req_nr/GP-TM-31)   For control systems which Software/Firmware   IoT Security Foundation      
                                                                                                                        cannot be updated (e.g.   updates             NIST NIST IIC (Industrial    
                                                                                                                        legacy systems), apply                        Internet Consortium) IIC     
                                                                                                                        compensating measures,                        (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        such as network                               Consortium) GSMA (Global     
                                                                                                                        segmentation, micro                           System for Mobile            
                                                                                                                        segmentation, system                          Communications)              
                                                                                                                        relocation or additional                                                   
                                                                                                                        real-time monitoring                                                       
                                                                                                                        tools. Perform risk                                                        
                                                                                                                        analysis to determine if                                                   
                                                                                                                        it is possible and                                                         
                                                                                                                        sufficient to improve                                                      
                                                                                                                        security of existing                                                       
                                                                                                                        system or if the                                                           
                                                                                                                        replacement of the system                                                  
                                                                                                                        is necessary.                                                              

  [GP-TM-30](https://trusttab.com/standards/masterdetail/index/enisa_industry_iot/enisa_industry_iot/req_nr/GP-TM-30)   Allow Third Parties to    Software/Firmware   IoT Security Foundation      
                                                                                                                        perform patching only if  updates             IoT Security Foundation      
                                                                                                                        they guarantee and are                        The Cavalry NIST             
                                                                                                                        able to prove that the                                                     
                                                                                                                        patch has been tested and                                                  
                                                                                                                        will not have any                                                          
                                                                                                                        negative consequences on                                                   
                                                                                                                        the device or if the                                                       
                                                                                                                        Third Party assumes the                                                    
                                                                                                                        liability for the update                                                   
                                                                                                                        according to an                                                            
                                                                                                                        applicable agreement. In                                                   
                                                                                                                        addition, require Third                                                    
                                                                                                                        Parties to report any                                                      
                                                                                                                        executed actions related                                                   
                                                                                                                        to the patching process                                                    
                                                                                                                        and inform about them in                                                   
                                                                                                                        advance. Update                                                            
                                                                                                                        procedures shall be                                                        
                                                                                                                        documented, known and                                                      
                                                                                                                        controlled by the                                                          
                                                                                                                        organisation.                                                              

  [GP-TM-29](https://trusttab.com/standards/masterdetail/index/enisa_industry_iot/enisa_industry_iot/req_nr/GP-TM-29)   Perform deployment of     Software/Firmware   Homeland Security IoT        
                                                                                                                        patches for the IIoT      updates             Security Foundation The      
                                                                                                                        devices only after                            Cavalry NIST Cloud           
                                                                                                                        proving that no negative                      Security Alliance IIC        
                                                                                                                        consequences exist. Test                      (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        the patches in a test                         Consortium) NIST ISO IIC     
                                                                                                                        environment before                            (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        implementing them in                          Consortium)                  
                                                                                                                        production. If this is                                                     
                                                                                                                        not possible, begin with                                                   
                                                                                                                        deploying patches only on                                                  
                                                                                                                        a segment of a system,                                                     
                                                                                                                        ensuring that other zones                                                  
                                                                                                                        will continue to operate                                                   
                                                                                                                        normally in case a patch                                                   
                                                                                                                        exerts any negative                                                        
                                                                                                                        impact on a chosen                                                         
                                                                                                                        segment.                                                                   

  [GP-TM-28](https://trusttab.com/standards/masterdetail/index/enisa_industry_iot/enisa_industry_iot/req_nr/GP-TM-28)   Execute automatic update  Software/Firmware   Homeland Security The        
                                                                                                                        procedures only if they   updates             Cavalry Siemens IIC          
                                                                                                                        are based on the risk                         (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        analysis and if the                           Consortium) NIST Cloud       
                                                                                                                        devices for which the                         Security Alliance IIC        
                                                                                                                        automatic update can be                       (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        allowed are identified.                       Consortium) ISO              
                                                                                                                        Verify the source of the                                                   
                                                                                                                        update.                                                                    

  [GP-TM-27](https://trusttab.com/standards/masterdetail/index/enisa_industry_iot/enisa_industry_iot/req_nr/GP-TM-27)   Verify endpoints\'        Software/Firmware   Homeland Security IoT        
                                                                                                                        software/firmware         updates             Security Foundation The      
                                                                                                                        authenticity and                              Cavalry Siemens NIST IIC     
                                                                                                                        integrity and ensure                          (Industrial Internet         
                                                                                                                        tight control over the                        Consortium) OWASP (Open      
                                                                                                                        update. Signing code                          Web Application Security     
                                                                                                                        updates (to be able to                        Project) NIST Cloud          
                                                                                                                        authenticate the code                         Security Alliance IoT        
                                                                                                                        before it is loaded) and                      Alliance Australia ISO       
                                                                                                                        maintaining the                               GSMA (Global System for      
                                                                                                                        authenticity is                               Mobile Communications)       
                                                                                                                        advisable.                                                                 

                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# ![](.//media/image3.png){width="2.3618055555555557in" height="3.7395833333333335in"}Value established {#value-established .KOP1-S}

Agree on added value solution

# ![](.//media/image4.png){width="2.3622047244094486in" height="3.677165354330709in"}Viable {#viable .KOP1-S}

System can be realized within set boundaries

# ![](.//media/image5.png){width="2.3622047244094486in" height="3.425196850393701in"}Addressed {#addressed .KOP1-S}

# ![](.//media/image6.png){width="2.3622047244094486in" height="3.425196850393701in"}Deployed {#deployed .KOP1-S}
